22962610	2012	Pharmacological agents, such as bezafibrate, that activate peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) and PPAR γ coactivator-1α (PGC-1α) pathways have been shown to improve mitochondrial function and energy metabolism. The mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutator mouse is a mouse model of aging that harbors a proofreading-deficient mtDNA polymerase γ. These mice develop many features of premature aging including hair loss, anemia, osteoporosis, sarcopenia and decreased lifespan. They also have increased mtDNA mutations and marked mitochondrial dysfunction. We found that mutator mice treated with bezafibrate for 8-months had delayed hair loss and improved skin and spleen aging-like phenotypes. Although we observed an increase in markers of fatty acid oxidation in these tissues, we did not detect a generalized increase in mitochondrial markers. On the other hand, there were no improvements in muscle function or lifespan of the mutator mouse, which we attributed to the rodent-specific hepatomegaly associated with fibrate treatment. These results showed that despite its secondary effects in rodent's liver, bezafibrate was able to improve some of the aging phenotypes in the mutator mouse. Because the associated hepatomegaly is not observed in primates, long-term bezafibrate treatment in humans could have beneficial effects on tissues undergoing chronic bioenergetic-related degeneration.
22962592	2012	Hemidesmosomes are composed of intricate networks of proteins, that are an essential attachment apparatus for the integrity of epithelial tissue. Disruption leads to blistering diseases such as epidermolysis bullosa. Members of the Sox gene family show dynamic and diverse expression patterns during development and mutation analyses in humans and mice provide evidence that they play a remarkable variety of roles in development and human disease. Previous studies have established that the mouse mutant ragged-opossum (Ra(op)) expresses a dominant-negative form of the SOX18 transcription factor that interferes with the function of wild type SOX18 and of the related SOXF-subgroup proteins SOX7 and -17. Here we show that skin and oral mucosa in homozygous Ra(op) mice display extensive detachment of epithelium from the underlying mesenchymal tissue, caused by tearing of epithelial cells just above the plasma membrane due to hemidesmosome disruption. In addition, several hemidesmosome proteins expression were found to be dysregulated in the Ra(op) mice. Our data suggest that SOXF transcription factors play a role in regulating formation of cytoplasmic plaque protein assembly, and that disrupted SOXF function results in epidermolysis bullosa-like skin phenotypes.
22962587	2012	Previous observations in a rat model of a non-Sjögren's syndrome (non-SS) type of dry eye seen in users of visual display terminals (VDT) indicated that secretory vesicle (SV) accumulation in the lacrimal gland epithelia contributes to the condition. Here, to examine this possibility in humans, we compared the lacrimal gland histology and percent SV area in the cytoplasm of acinar epithelial cells using light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy, in patients with VDT work-related non-SS dry-eye (VDT group), SS-induced dry-eye, and autopsied normal controls. In addition, the VAMP8 (vesicle-associated membrane protein 8, an exocrine-pathway molecule) and Rab3D (mature vesicle marker) were histochemically examined in lacrimal gland tissue sections. The lacrimal gland acini were larger in the VDT group than in the SS group, and the percent SV area was significantly higher in the VDT group than in the normal controls (P = 0.021) or SS group (P = 0.004). Immunostaining revealed abnormal distributions of VAMP8 in the VDT and SS groups. Rab3D was more strongly expressed in the cytoplasm of acinar epithelial cells in the VDT group than in that of normal controls. The duration of VDT use was significantly longer in the VDT group than in the other groups. These findings suggest that excessive SV accumulation in the acinar epithelia may contribute to the reduced tear secretion in VDT users.
22962439	2012	PURPOSE: MNRP1685A is a monoclonal antibody to neuropilin-1 (NRP1). We evaluated blood-based pharmacodynamic (PD) biomarkers of MNRP1685A in two Phase I studies to assess exposure/response relationships to inform target dose and regimen selection. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The Phase I studies evaluated escalating doses of MNRP1685A as a single agent or in combination with bevacizumab. Plasma Placental Growth Factor (P1GF), VEGF and circulating NRP1 (cNRP1) were evaluated at multiple time-points using meso-scale discovery (MSD) assays and ELISA, respectively. Plasma PlGF was also measured in a Phase I/II trial of bevacizumab in metastatic breast cancer (AVF0776). The association between PlGF and MNRP1685A dose was described by a sigmoid Emax model. cNRP1 and MNRP1685A PK profiles were described using a two-target quasi-steady state (QSS) model. RESULTS: A dose and time dependent increase in plasma PlGF and cNRP1 was observed in all patients treated with MNRP1685A. PK/PD analysis showed that bevacizumab and MNRP1685A had an additive effect in elevating P1GF. Predictions based on the two-target QSS model showed that the free drug concentration to maintain greater than 90% saturation of membrane NRP1 (mNRP1) and cNRP1 is about 8 mug/mL. CONCLUSIONS: These data show that MNRP1685A inhibits the VEGF pathway in humans as assessed by an increase in plasma PlGF. MNRP1685A appears to enhance bevacizumab-mediated VEGF pathway blockade, as demonstrated by an increase in the magnitude of PlGF elevation when combined with bevacizumab. PK/PD analysis of biomarkers in the Phase I population allowed identification of doses at which apparent maximal pathway modulation was observed.
22962300	2012	Chromosomal aneuploidy, the gain or loss of whole chromosomes, is a hallmark of pathological conditions and a causal factor of birth defects and cancer. A number of studies indicate that aneuploid cells are present at a high frequency in the brain of mice and humans, suggesting that mosaic aneuploidies are compatible with normal brain function and prompting the question about their possible consequences. To explore the possible contribution of aneuploidy to functional decline and loss of cognitive functions during aging we used a quantitative, dual-labeling interphase-FISH approach to compare aneuploidy levels of chromosomes 1, 7, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19 and Y in the cerebral cortex of 4- and 28-month old mice. We show that aneuploidy accumulates with age in a chromosome-specific manner, with chromosomes 7, 18 and Y most severely affected, i.e., up to 9.8% of non-neuronal brain nuclei in 28-month old animals for chromosome 18. While at early age both neuronal and glial cells are affected equally, the age-related increase was limited to the non-neuronal nuclei. No age-related increase in aneuploidy was observed in the cerebellum or in the spleen of the same animals. Extrapolating the average frequencies of aneuploidy from the average over 8 chromosomes to all 20 mouse chromosomes, would indicate an almost 50% aneuploidy frequency in aged mouse brain. Such high levels of genome instability could well be a factor in age-related neurodegeneration.
22962078	2012	We describe a framework that leverages mixed probabilistic and deterministic networks and their AND/OR search space to efficiently find and track the hands and feet of multiple interacting humans in 2D from a single camera view. Our framework detects and tracks multiple people's heads, hands, and feet through partial or full occlusion; requires few constraints (does not require multiple views, high image resolution, knowledge of performed activities, or large training sets); and makes use of constraints and AND/OR Branch-and-Bound with lazy evaluation and carefully computed bounds to efficiently solve the complex network that results from the consideration of inter-person occlusion. Our main contributions are 1) a multi-person part-based formulation that emphasizes extremities and allows for the globally optimal solution to be obtained in each frame, and 2) an efficient and exact optimization scheme that relies on AND/OR Branch-and-Bound, lazy factor evaluation, and factor cost sensitive bottom-up bound computation. We demonstrate our approach on three datasets: the public single person HumanEva dataset, outdoor sequences where multiple people interact in a group meeting scenario, and outdoor one-on-one basketball videos. The first dataset demonstrates that our framework achieves state-of-the-art performance in the single person setting, while the last two demonstrate robustness in the presence of partial and full occlusion and fast non-trivial motion.
22962046	2012	Pulse wave velocity (PWV) is a known indicator of arterial stiffness and cardiovascular risk. We critically evaluated the evidence supporting the four main non-invasive devices available to assess it: Complior, SphygmoCor, Arteriograph and Vicorder. PubMed and Medline databases (1960-2011) were searched to identify studies reporting carotid-femoral PWV in humans using one or more of the four devices. Of the 183 articles retrieved, 43 met inclusion criteria. The Arteriograph device demonstrated least variance but had poor agreement with the other devices. Undisputable reference values for PWV need to be established and internationally agreed, and a standardized method for superficial distance measurement generated to reduce variability. Further studies comparing all four devices with invasive assessment are necessary.
22961942	2012	The development of rapid, specific, cost-effective, and robust tools in monitoring Hg(2+) levels in both environmental and biological samples is of utmost importance due to the severe mercury toxicity to humans. A number of techniques exist, but the colorimetric assay, which is reviewed herein, is shown to be a possible tool in monitoring the level of mercury. These assays allow transforming target sensing events into color changes, which have applicable potential for in-the-field application through naked-eye detection. Specifically, plasmonic nanoparticle-based colorimetric assay exhibits a much better propensity for identifying various targets in terms of sensitivity, solubility, and stability compared to commonly used organic chromophores. In this review, recent progress in the development of gold nanoparticle-based colorimetric assays for Hg(2+) is summarized, with a particular emphasis on examples of functionalized gold nanoparticle systems with oligonucleotides, oligopeptides, and functional molecules. Besides highlighting the current design principle for plasmonic nanoparticle-based colorimetric probes, the discussions on challenges and the prospect of next-generation probes for in-the-field applications are also presented.
22961937	2012	Comparative genomics has shown that noncoding RNAs can display substantial differences between humans and chimpanzees. The human accelerated region 1 (HAR1) is a section in the human genome that exhibits the most strongly accelerated rate of nucleotide substitution in relation to the chimpanzee genome. It is associated with higher cognitive functions in human brains. The HAR1 region of the HAR1F gene is transcribed into a 118 nt noncoding RNA. We provide experimental data to validate available secondary structure models of chimpanzee and human HAR1 RNA by utilizing CD and NMR spectroscopy and applying a "divide-and-conquer" strategy. The mutations lead to more dynamic secondary and tertiary structure in the human HAR1 RNA, presumably as part of its function. We have also determined NMR solution structures of helix H1 as the most conserved part of the chimpanzee and human HAR1 RNAs. Helix H1 contains a GAA asymmetric internal loop, the structure of which had not been solved previously. 37 nt chimpanzee and human RNA fragments (c37 and h37 RNAs) differ in a single base pair. h37 RNA folds into a slightly more stable and rigid structure than c37 RNA. Both NMR structures show structural heterogeneity of the residues corresponding to the GAA loop.
22961931	2012	Is the human tendency toward musicality better thought of as the product of a specific, evolved instinct or an acquired skill? Developmental and evolutionary arguments are considered, along with issues of domain-specificity. The article also considers the question of why humans might be consistently and intensely drawn to music if musicality is not in fact the product of a specifically evolved instinct.
22961895	2012	PCR diagnostics detected 100% prevalence of Helicobacter in 425 wild house mice (Mus musculus) from across Central Europe. Of seven species identified, the five most frequent were H. rodentium (78%), H. typhlonius (53%), H. hepaticus (41%), H. bilis (30%) and H. muridarum (1%). Double infections were more common (42%) than single (30%) and triple (21%) infections. Wild house mice could be considered potential reservoirs of Helicobacter for both humans and other vertebrates.
22961884	2012	Brunner's glands are submucosal glands located in the proximal duodenum. Hyperplasia of the Brunner's gland has been reported rarely in humans and animals. We examined sections of the Brunner's gland from 63 sand rats submitted for necropsy over 2 years. Of the 63 animals necropsied, 45 (71%) had evidence of hyperplasia defined as nodular expansion, dilated ducts, or intraductal papillary proliferation. The hyperplasia was graded as mild in 22 (49%) of the cases, moderate in 15 (33%), and marked in 8 (18%). We found an association with both increased age and evidence of gastric ulceration and hyperplasia of the Brunner's gland. In sand rats with marked hyperplasia, 8 of 8 (100%) had evidence of gastric ulceration, compared to 13 of 18 (72%) in animals with no hyperplasia. Animals with marked hyperplasia were, on average, 8.4 months older than animals with no hyperplasia. There was no association with gender. The lesion in sand rats is histologically similar to that in humans.
22961868	2012	Here we describe the head and neck muscles of members of the two extant felid subfamilies (Leptailurus serval: Felinae; Panthera tigris: Pantherinae) and compare these muscles with those of other felids, other carnivorans (e.g., domestic dogs), other eutherian mammals (e.g., rats, tree-shrews and modern humans), and noneutherian mammals including monotremes. Another major goal of the article is to discuss and help clarify nomenclatural discrepancies found in the Nomina Anatomica Veterinaria and in veterinary atlases and textbooks that use cats and dogs as models to understand the anatomy of domestic mammals and to stress differences with modern humans. We propose a unifying nomenclature that is expanded to all the head and neck muscles and to all mammalian taxa in order to help build veterinary and mammalian muscle ontologies. Our observations and comparisons and the specific use of this nomenclature point out that felids such as tigers and servals and other carnivorans such as dogs have more facial muscle structures related to the mobility of both the auricular and orbital regions than numerous other mammals, including modern humans, which might be the result of an ancient adaptation related to the remarkable predatory capacities of carnivorans. Interestingly, the skeletal differences, mainly concerning the hyoid apparatus, pharynx, and larynx, that are likely associated with the different types of vocalizations seen in the Felinae (mainly purring) and Pantherinae (mainly roaring) are not accompanied by clear differences in the musculature connected to these structures in the feline L. serval and the pantherine P. tigris. Anat Rec, 2012. © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
22961856	2012	Lysozyme is a key component of the innate immune response in humans that provides a first line of defence against microbes. The bactericidal effect of lysozyme relies both on the cell wall lytic activity of this enzyme and a cationic antimicrobial peptide activity that leads to membrane permeabilization. Amongst Gram-positive bacteria, the opportunistic pathogen Enterococcus faecalis has been shown to be extremely resistant to lysozyme. This unusual resistance is partly explained by peptidoglycan O-acetylation, which inhibits the enzymatic activity of lysozyme, and partly by D-alanylation of teichoic acids, which is likely to inhibit binding of lysozyme to the bacterial cell wall. Surprisingly, combined mutations abolishing both peptidoglycan O-acetylation and teichoic acid alanylation are not sufficient to confer lysozyme susceptibility. In this work, we identify another mechanism involved in E. faecalis lysozyme resistance. We show that exposure to lysozyme triggers the expression of EF1843, a protein that is not detected under normal growth conditions. Analysis of peptidoglycan structure from strains with EF1843 loss- and gain-of-function mutations, together with in vitro assays using recombinant protein, showed that EF1843 is a peptidoglycan N-acetylglucosamine deacetylase. EF1843-mediated peptidoglycan deacetylation was shown to contribute to lysozyme resistance by inhibiting both lysozyme enzymatic activity and, to a lesser extent, lysozyme cationic antimicrobial activity. Finally, EF1843 mutation was shown to reduce the ability of E. faecalis to cause lethality in the Galleria mellonella infection model. Taken together, our results reveal that peptidoglycan deacetylation is a component of the arsenal that enables E. faecalis to thrive inside mammalian hosts, both as a commensal and a pathogen.
22961855	2012	Regulated intramembrane proteolysis (RIP) involves cleavage of a transmembrane segment of a protein, releasing the active form of a membrane-anchored transcription factor (MTF) or a membrane-tethered signaling protein in response to an extracellular or intracellular signal. RIP is conserved from bacteria to humans and governs many important signaling pathways in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Proteases that carry out these cleavages are named intramembrane cleaving proteases (I-CLips). To date, little is known about I-CLips in cyanobacteria. In this study, 5 putative site-2 type I-Clips (S2Ps: Ava_1070, Ava_1730, Ava_1797, Ava_3438 and Ava_4785) were identified through a genome-wide survey in Anabaena variabilis. Biochemical analysis demonstrated that these 5 putative avS2Ps have authentic protease activities towards an artificial substrate Pro-σ(K), a Bacillus subtilis MTF, in our reconstituted Escherichia coli system. The enzymatic activities of processing Pro-σ(K) differ among these 5 avS2Ps. Substitution of glutamic acid (E) by glutamine (Q) in the conserved HEXXH zinc coordinated motif caused the loss of protease activities in these five avS2Ps, suggesting that they belonged to the metalloprotease family. Further mapping of the cleaved peptides of Pro-σ(K) by Ava_4785 and Ava_1797 revealed that Ava_4785 and Ava_1797 recognized the same cleavage site in Pro-σ(K) as SpoIVFB, a cognate S2P of Pro-σ(K) from B. subtilis. Taken together, we report here for the first time the identification of five metallo-intramembrane cleaving proteases in Anabaena variabilis. The experimental system described herein should be applicable to studies of other RIP events and amenable to developing in vitro assays for I-CLips.