22962605	2012	Transposable elements (TEs) are a major source of genetic variability in genomes, creating genetic novelty and driving genome evolution. Analysis of sequenced genomes has revealed considerable diversity in TE families, copy number, and localization between different, closely related species. For instance, although the twin species Drosophila melanogaster and D. simulans share the same TE families, they display different amounts of TEs. Furthermore, previous analyses of wild type derived strains of D. simulans have revealed high polymorphism regarding TE copy number within this species. Several factors may influence the diversity and abundance of TEs in a genome, including molecular mechanisms such as epigenetic factors, which could be a source of variation in TE success. In this paper, we present the first analysis of the epigenetic status of four TE families (roo, tirant, 412 and F) in seven wild type strains of D. melanogaster and D. simulans. Our data shows intra- and inter-specific variations in the histone marks that adorn TE copies. Our results demonstrate that the chromatin state of common TEs varies among TE families, between closely related species and also between wild type strains.
22962073	2012	In this paper, we consider the problem of learning from multiple related tasks for improved generalization performance by extracting their shared structures. The alternating structure optimization (ASO) algorithm which couples all tasks using a shared feature representation has been applied successfully in various multi-task learning problems. However, ASO is nonconvex and the alternating algorithm only finds a local solution. We first present an improved ASO formulation (iASO) for multitask learning based on a new regularizer. We then convert iASO, a non-convex formulation, into a relaxed convex one (rASO). Interestingly, our theoretical analysis reveals that rASO finds a globally optimal solution to its non-convex counterpart iASO under certain conditions. rASO can be equivalently reformulated as a semidefinite program (SDP), which is, however, not scalable to large datasets. We propose to employ the block coordinate descent (BCD) method and the accelerated projected gradient (APG) algorithm separately to find the globally optimal solution to rASO; we also develop efficient algorithms for solving the key subproblems involved in BCD and APG. The experiments on the Yahoo web pages datasets and the Drosophila gene expression pttern images datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed algorithms and confirm our theoretical analysis.
22961661	2012	RNA interference is a eukaryotic regulatory mechanism by which small non-coding RNAs typically mediate specific silencing of their cognate genes. In Drosophila, the RNase III enzyme Dicer-2 (Dcr-2) is essential for biogenesis of endogenous small interfering RNAs (endo-siRNAs), which have been implicated in regulation of endogenous protein-coding genes. Although much is known about microRNA-based regulatory networks, the biological functions of endo-siRNAs in animals remain poorly understood. We performed gene expression profiling on Drosophila dcr-2 null mutant pupae to investigate transcriptional effects caused by a severe defect in endo-siRNA production, and found 306 up-regulated and 357 down-regulated genes with at least a 2-fold change in expression compared with the wild type. Most of these up-regulated and down-regulated genes were associated with energy metabolism and development, respectively. Importantly, mRNA sequences of 39% of the up-regulated genes were perfectly complementary to the sequences of previously reported endo-siRNAs, suggesting they may be direct targets of endo-siRNAs. We confirmed up-regulation of five selected genes matching endo-siRNAs and concomitant down-regulation of the corresponding endo-siRNAs in dcr-2 mutant pupae. Most of the potential endo-siRNA target genes were associated with energy metabolism, including the citric acid cycle and oxidative phosphorylation in mitochondria, implying that these are major metabolic processes directly affected by endo-siRNAs in Drosophila. Consistent with this finding, dcr-2 null mutant pupae had lower ATP content compared with controls, indicating that mitochondrial energy production is impaired in these mutants. Our data support a potential role for the endo-siRNA pathway in energy homeostasis through regulation of mitochondrial metabolism. J. Cell. Biochem. © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
22961348	2012	p53 family members have been implicated in regulation of genomic integrity and apoptosis in a variety of tissues. The Drosophila family member, Dmp53, primarily functions to regulate apoptosis in developing and regenerating tissues but loss of function mutants are viable and fertile. Dmp53 exhibits a striking expression pattern in the male germline with high levels found in nuclear bodies in pre-meiotic germ cells. The localisation of Dmp53 to nuclear bodies is dependent upon Dmp53 complexes being able to bind DNA, and although dmp53 mutants do not affect germline stem cell (GSC) maintenance or differentiation, GSCs are sensitive to overexpression of Dmp53 but maturing spermatogonia are not. Dmp53 thus has differential effects depending upon the stage of male germline maturation.
22961037	2012	Heritable endosymbiotic bacteria associated with insects are ubiquitous and taxonomically diverse. Many of these endosymbionts influence the fitness of their hosts and/or manipulate their host reproduction. Exploiting the effects of endosymbionts on hosts for pest control is a growing research area, but requires knowledge of endosymbionts associated with the target pest population. In this study, we used molecular methods to screen southern Mexico populations of two species of tephritid fruit fly pests, Anastrepha ludens and A. striata, for heritable bacteria. The only heritable endosymbiont found was Wolbachia in A. striata. Based on multilocus sequence typing and phylogenetic analyses, this Wolbachia strain is new and belongs to the Wolbachia supergroup B. Wolbachia strains previously reported in members of the genus Anastrepha in South America belong to supergroup A. We discuss the potential implications for pest control of the presence of a different Wolbachia strain in southern Mexico.
22960750	2012	For a period of 6-15 days prior to death, the fecundity and virility of Drosophila melanogaster fall significantly below those of same-aged flies that are not near death. It is likely that other aspects of physiology may decline during this period. This study attempts to document changes in two physiological characteristics prior to death: desiccation resistance and time-in-motion. Using individual fecundity estimates and previously described models, it is possible to accurately predict which flies in a population are near death at any given age; these flies are said to be in the "death spiral". In this study of approximately 7,600 females, we used cohort mortality data and individual fecundity estimates to dichotomize each of five replicate populations of same-aged D. melanogaster into "death spiral" and "non-spiral" groups. We then compared these groups for two physiological characteristics that decline during aging. We describe the statistical properties of a new multivariate test statistic that allows us to compare the desiccation resistance and time-in-motion for two populations chosen on the basis of their fecundity. This multivariate representation of the desiccation resistance and time-in-motion of spiral and non-spiral females was shown to be significantly different with the spiral females characterized by lower desiccation resistance and time spent in motion. Our results suggest that D. melanogaster may be used as a model organism to study physiological changes that occur when death is imminent.
22960282	2012	The two fundamental types of photoreceptor cells have evolved unique structures to expand the apical membrane to accommodate the phototransduction machinery, exemplified by the cilia-based outer segment of the vertebrate photoreceptor cell and the microvilli-based rhabdomere of the invertebrate photoreceptor. The morphogenesis of these compartments is integral for photoreceptor cell integrity and function. However, little is known about the elementary cellular and molecular mechanisms required to generate these compartments. Here we investigate whether a conserved cellular mechanism exists to create the phototransduction compartments by examining the functional role of a photoreceptor protein common to both rhabdomeric and ciliated photoreceptor cells, Prominin. First and foremost we demonstrate that the physiological role of Prominin is conserved between rhabdomeric and ciliated photoreceptor cells. Human Prominin1 is not only capable of rescuing the corresponding rhabdomeric Drosophila prominin mutation but also demonstrates a conserved genetic interaction with a second photoreceptor protein Eyes Shut. Furthermore, we demonstrate the Prominin homologs in vertebrate and invertebrate photoreceptors require the same structural features and post-translational modifications for function. Moreover, expression of mutant human Prominin1, associated with autosomal dominant retinal degeneration, in rhabdomeric photoreceptor cells disrupts morphogenesis in ways paralleling retinal degeneration seen in ciliated photoreceptors. Taken together, our results suggest the existence of an ancestral Prominin-directed cellular mechanism to create and model the apical membranes of the two fundamental types of photoreceptor cells into their respective phototransduction compartments.
22960233	2012	Nutrient availability is a key determinant of animal growth. The conserved insulin/PI3 kinase and TOR kinase signaling pathways are two of the best characterized regulators of cell and tissue growth in response to nutritional conditions. Studies in Drosophila larvae show that one mechanism by which these pathways drive growth is by regulating the expression of metabolic genes, especially those genes required for protein synthesis. Here we examine a role for the transcription factor DREF in mediating some of these transcriptional and growth responses. We find that loss of DREF leads to a decrease in organismal growth. These effects are in part due to a requirement for DREF function in cell-autonomous growth. We also uncover a non-autonomous role for DREF activity in the larval fat body. Previous studies show that activation of TOR in the fat body couples nutrition to insulin release from the brain; we find that inhibition of DREF in the fat body can phenocopy effects of nutrient deprivation and fat-specific TOR inhibition, leading to a reduction in systemic insulin signaling, delayed larval growth and smaller final size. Using genetic epistasis, we find that DREF is required for growth downstream of TOR, but not insulin/PI3K signaling. Moreover, we show that TOR can control DREF mRNA levels, in part via the transcription factor dMyc. Finally we show that DREF is required for normal expression of many ribosome biogenesis genes, suggesting that one mechanism by which DREF is required for growth is through the control of protein synthetic capacity. Together these findings suggest DREF is an essential transcription factor in the nutritional control of cell and tissue growth during Drosophila development. Given that DREF is conserved, this role may also be important in the control of growth in other animals.
22960039	2012	Successful development of a multicellular organism depends on the finely tuned orchestration of cell proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis from embryogenesis through adulthood. The MYB-gene family encodes sequence-specific DNA-binding transcription factors that have been implicated in the regulation of both normal and neoplastic growth. The Drosophila Myb protein, DMyb (and vertebrate B-Myb protein), has been shown to be part of the dREAM/MMB complex, a large multi-subunit complex, which in addition to four Myb-interacting proteins including Mip130, contains repressive E2F and pRB proteins. This complex has been implicated in the regulation of DNA replication within the context of chorion gene amplification and transcriptional regulation of a wide array of genes. Detailed phenotypic analysis of mutations in the Drosophila myb gene, Dm myb, has revealed a previously undiscovered function for the dREAM/MMB complex in regulating programmed cell death (PCD). In cooperation with the pro-apoptotic protein Grim and dREAM/MMB, DMyb promotes the PCD of specified sensory organ precursor daughter cells in at least two different settings in the peripheral nervous system: the pIIIb precursor of the neuron and sheath cells in the posterior wing margin and the glial cell in the thoracic microchaete lineage. Unlike previously analyzed settings, in which the main role of DMyb has been to antagonize the activities of other dREAM/MMB complex members, it appears to be the critical effector in promoting PCD. The finding that Dm myb and grim are both involved in regulating PCD in two distinct settings suggests that these two genes may often work together to mediate PCD.
22959350	2012	Glial cells are crucial regulators of synapse formation, elimination, and plasticity [1, 2]. In vitro studies have begun to identify glial-derived synaptogenic factors [1], but neuron-glia signaling events during synapse formation in vivo remain poorly defined. The coordinated development of pre- and postsynaptic compartments at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction (NMJ) depends on a muscle-secreted retrograde signal, the TGF-β/BMP Glass bottom boat (Gbb) [3, 4]. Muscle-derived Gbb activates the TGF-β receptors Wishful thinking (Wit) and either Saxophone (Sax) or Thick veins (Tkv) in motor neurons [3, 4]. This induces phosphorylation of Mad (P-Mad) in motor neurons, its translocation into the nucleus with a co-Smad, and activation of transcriptional programs controlling presynaptic bouton growth [5]. Here we show that NMJ glia release the TGF-β ligand Maverick (Mav), which likely activates the muscle activin-type receptor Punt to potently modulate Gbb-dependent retrograde signaling and synaptic growth. Loss of glial Mav results in strikingly reduced P-Mad at NMJs, decreased Gbb transcription in muscle, and in turn reduced muscle-to-motor neuron retrograde TGF-β/BMP signaling. We propose that by controlling Gbb release from muscle, glial cells fine tune the ability of motor neurons to extend new synaptic boutons in correlation to muscle growth. Our work identifies a novel glia-derived synaptogenic factor by which glia modulate synapse formation in vivo.
22958902	2012	Meningiomas are the most common primary tumors of the CNS and account for up to 30% of all CNS tumors. An increased risk of meningiomas has been associated with certain tumor-susceptibility syndromes, especially neurofibromatosis type II, but no gene defects predisposing to isolated familial meningiomas have thus far been identified. Here, we report on a family of five meningioma-affected siblings, four of whom have multiple tumors. No NF2 mutations were identified in the germline or tumors. We combined genome-wide linkage analysis and exome sequencing, and we identified in suppressor of fused homolog (Drosophila), SUFU, a c.367C>T (p.Arg123Cys) mutation segregating with the meningiomas in the family. The variation was not present in healthy controls, and all seven meningiomas analyzed displayed loss of the wild-type allele according to the classic two-hit model for tumor-suppressor genes. In silico modeling predicted the variant to affect the tertiary structure of the protein, and functional analyses showed that the activity of the altered SUFU was significantly reduced and therefore led to dysregulated hedgehog (Hh) signaling. SUFU is a known tumor-suppressor gene previously associated with childhood medulloblastoma predisposition. Our genetic and functional analyses indicate that germline mutations in SUFU also predispose to meningiomas, particularly to multiple meningiomas. It is possible that other genic mutations resulting in aberrant activation of the Hh pathway might underlie meningioma predisposition in families with an unknown etiology.
22957485	2012	Abstract As an initial step to improve the efficiency of the sterile insect technique applied to eradicate, suppress, and control wild Anastrepha obliqua (Macquart) (Diptera: Tephritidae) in mango producing areas of Mexico, the effect of radiation dose and mass rearing history on male mating performance was examined. Field cage tests in which both male and female laboratory flies were irradiated at different doses (0, 40, and 80 Gy) were released with cohorts of wild flies of both sexes, revealing that both mass rearing history and irradiation affected male mating performance. Laboratory males were accepted for copulation by wild females less frequently than wild males. Copulations involving laboratory males were shorter than those involving wild males. Irradiated males mated less frequently with wild females than wild males, and irradiated females appeared to be less able to reject courting males of both origins. High levels of fertility for untreated laboratory females crossed with males irradiated at different doses may reflect problems in mass rearing affecting homogeneity of pupal age before irradiation, and possibly masked a dose effect. Proposed remedial measures to improve male mating performance are discussed.
22957299	2012	The processes that underlie mate choice have long fascinated biologists. With the advent of increasingly refined genetic tools, we are now beginning to understand the genetic basis of how males and females discriminate among potential mates. One aspect of mate discrimination of particular interest is that which isolates one species from another. As behavioral isolation is thought to be the first step in speciation, and females are choosy more often than males in this regard, identifying the genetic variants that influence interspecies female mate choice can enhance our understanding of the process of speciation. Here, we review the literature on female mate choice in the most widely used model system for studies of species isolation Drosophila. Although females appear to use the same traits for both within- and between-species female mate choice, there seems to be a different genetic basis underlying these choices. Interestingly, most genomic regions that cause females to reject heterospecific males fall within areas of low recombination. Likely, candidate genes are those that act within the auditory or olfactory system, or within areas of the brain that process these systems.
22957182	2012	The negative fitness consequences of close inbreeding are widely recognized, but predicting the long-term effects of inbreeding and genetic drift due to limited population size is not straightforward. As the frequency and homozygosity of recessive deleterious alleles increase, selection can remove (purge) them from a population, reducing the genetic load. At the same time, small population size relaxes selection against mildly harmful mutations, which may lead to accumulation of genetic load. The efficiency of purging and the accumulation of mutations both depend on the rate of inbreeding (i.e., population size) and on the nature of mutations. We studied how increasing levels of inbreeding affect offspring production and extinction in experimental Drosophila littoralis populations replicated in two sizes, N = 10 and N = 40. Offspring production and extinction were measured over 25 generations concurrently with a large control population. In the N = 10 populations, offspring production decreased strongly at low levels of inbreeding, then recovered only to show a consistent subsequent decline, suggesting early expression and purging of recessive highly deleterious alleles and subsequent accumulation of mildly harmful mutations. In the N = 40 populations, offspring production declined only after inbreeding reached higher levels, suggesting that inbreeding and genetic drift pose a smaller threat to population fitness when inbreeding is slow. Our results suggest that highly deleterious alleles can be purged in small populations already at low levels of inbreeding, but that purging does not protect the small populations from eventual genetic deterioration and extinction.
22957145	2012	Variation in the expression of reproductive traits provides the raw material upon which sexual selection can act. It is therefore important to understand how key factors such as environmental variation influence the expression of reproductive traits, as these will have a fundamental effect on the evolution of mating systems. It is also important to consider the effects of environmental variation upon reproductive traits in both sexes and to make comparisons with the environment to which the organism is adapted. In this study, we addressed these issues in a systematic study of the effect of a key environmental factor, variation in larval density, on reproductive trait expression in male and female Drosophila melanogaster. To do this, we compared reproductive trait expression when flies were reared under controlled conditions at eight different larval densities that covered a 20-fold range. Then, to place these results in a relevant context, we compared the results to those from flies sourced directly from stock cages. Many reproductive traits were surprisingly insensitive to variation in larval density. A notable exception was nonlinear variation in female fecundity. In contrast, we found much bigger differences in comparisons with flies from stock cages-including differences in body size, latency to mate, copulation duration, fecundity, and male share of paternity in a competitive environment. For a number of traits, even densities of 1000 larvae per vial (125 larvae per mL of food) did not phenocopy stock cage individuals. This study reveals novel patterns of sex-specific sensitivity to environmental variation that will influence the strength of sexual selection. It also illustrates the importance of comparisons with the environment to which individuals are adapted.
22957060	2012	Mitochondrial fusion is essential to organelle homeostasis and organ health. Inexplicably, loss of function mutations of mitofusin 2 (Mfn2) specifically affect neurological tissue, causing Charcot Marie Tooth syndrome (CMT) and atypical optic atrophy. As CMT-linked Mfn2 mutations are predominantly within the GTPase domain, we postulated that Mfn2 mutations in other functional domains might affect non-neurological tissues. Here, we defined in vitro and in vivo consequences of rare human mutations in the poorly characterized Mfn2 HR1 domain. Human exome sequencing data identified 4 rare non-synonymous Mfn2 HR1 domain mutations, two bioinformatically predicted as damaging. Recombinant expression of these (Mfn2 M393I and R400Q) in Mfn2-null murine embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) revealed incomplete rescue of characteristic mitochondrial fragmentation, compared to wild-type human Mfn2 (hMfn2); Mfn2 400Q uniquely induced mitochondrial fragmentation in normal MEFs. To compare Mfn2 mutation effects in neurological and non-neurological tissues in vivo, hMfn2 and the two mutants were expressed in Drosophila eyes or heart tubes made deficient in endogenous fly mitofusin (dMfn) through organ-specific RNAi expression. The two mutants induced similar Drosophila eye phenotypes: small eyes and an inability to rescue the eye pathology induced by suppression of dMfn. In contrast, Mfn2 400Q induced more severe cardiomyocyte mitochondrial fragmentation and cardiac phenotypes than Mfn2 393I, including heart tube dilation, depressed fractional shortening, and progressively impaired negative geotaxis. These data reveal a central functional role for Mfn2 HR1 domains, describe organ-specific effects of two Mfn2 HR1 mutations, and strongly support prospective studies of Mfn2 400Q in heritable human heart disease of unknown genetic etiology.
22956916	2012	Fatty acid (FA) metabolism plays a central role in body homeostasis and related diseases. Thus, FA metabolic enzymes are attractive targets for drug therapy. Mouse studies on Acetyl-coenzymeA-carboxylase (ACC), the rate-limiting enzyme for FA synthesis, have highlighted its homeostatic role in liver and adipose tissue. We took advantage of the powerful genetics of Drosophila melanogaster to investigate the role of the unique Drosophila ACC homologue in the fat body and the oenocytes. The fat body accomplishes hepatic and storage functions, whereas the oenocytes are proposed to produce the cuticular lipids and to contribute to the hepatic function. RNA-interfering disruption of ACC in the fat body does not affect viability but does result in a dramatic reduction in triglyceride storage and a concurrent increase in glycogen accumulation. These metabolic perturbations further highlight the role of triglyceride and glycogen storage in controlling circulatory sugar levels, thereby validating Drosophila as a relevant model to explore the tissue-specific function of FA metabolic enzymes. In contrast, ACC disruption in the oenocytes through RNA-interference or tissue-targeted mutation induces lethality, as does oenocyte ablation. Surprisingly, this lethality is associated with a failure in the watertightness of the spiracles-the organs controlling the entry of air into the trachea. At the cellular level, we have observed that, in defective spiracles, lipids fail to transfer from the spiracular gland to the point of air entry. This phenotype is caused by disrupted synthesis of a putative very-long-chain-FA (VLCFA) within the oenocytes, which ultimately results in a lethal anoxic issue. Preventing liquid entry into respiratory systems is a universal issue for air-breathing animals. Here, we have shown that, in Drosophila, this process is controlled by a putative VLCFA produced within the oenocytes.
22956914	2012	Evolutionary conflict permeates biological systems. In sexually reproducing organisms, sex-specific optima mean that the same allele can have sexually antagonistic expression, i.e. beneficial in one sex and detrimental in the other, a phenomenon known as intralocus sexual conflict. Intralocus sexual conflict is emerging as a potentially fundamental factor for the genetic architecture of fitness, with important consequences for evolutionary processes. However, no study to date has directly experimentally tested the evolutionary fate of a sexually antagonistic allele. Using genetic constructs to manipulate female fecundity and male mating success, we engineered a novel sexually antagonistic allele (SAA) in Drosophila melanogaster. The SAA is nearly twice as costly to females as it is beneficial to males, but the harmful effects to females are recessive and X-linked, and thus are rarely expressed when SAA occurs at low frequency. We experimentally show how the evolutionary dynamics of the novel SAA are qualitatively consistent with the predictions of population genetic models: SAA frequency decreases when common, but increases when rare, converging toward an equilibrium frequency of ∼8%. Furthermore, we show that persistence of the SAA requires the mating advantage it provides to males: the SAA frequency declines towards extinction when the male advantage is experimentally abolished. Our results empirically demonstrate the dynamics underlying the evolutionary fate of a sexually antagonistic allele, validating a central assumption of intralocus sexual conflict theory: that variation in fitness-related traits within populations can be maintained via sex-linked sexually antagonistic loci.
22956908	2012	The eukaryotic nucleus is both spatially and functionally partitioned. This organization contributes to the maintenance, expression, and transmission of genetic information. Though our ability to probe the physical structure of the genome within the nucleus has improved substantially in recent years, relatively little is known about the factors that regulate its organization or the mechanisms through which specific organizational states are achieved. Here, we show that Drosophila melanogaster Condensin II induces axial compaction of interphase chromosomes, globally disrupts interchromosomal interactions, and promotes the dispersal of peri-centric heterochromatin. These Condensin II activities compartmentalize the nucleus into discrete chromosome territories and indicate commonalities in the mechanisms that regulate the spatial structure of the genome during mitosis and interphase.
22956897	2012	Embryonic development is driven by spatial patterns of gene expression that determine the fate of each cell in the embryo. While gene expression is often highly erratic, embryonic development is usually exceedingly precise. In particular, gene expression boundaries are robust not only against intra-embryonic fluctuations such as noise in gene expression and protein diffusion, but also against embryo-to-embryo variations in the morphogen gradients, which provide positional information to the differentiating cells. How development is robust against intra- and inter-embryonic variations is not understood. A common motif in the gene regulation networks that control embryonic development is mutual repression between pairs of genes. To assess the role of mutual repression in the robust formation of gene expression patterns, we have performed large-scale stochastic simulations of a minimal model of two mutually repressing gap genes in Drosophila, hunchback (hb) and knirps (kni). Our model includes not only mutual repression between hb and kni, but also the stochastic and cooperative activation of hb by the anterior morphogen Bicoid (Bcd) and of kni by the posterior morphogen Caudal (Cad), as well as the diffusion of Hb and Kni between neighboring nuclei. Our analysis reveals that mutual repression can markedly increase the steepness and precision of the gap gene expression boundaries. In contrast to other mechanisms such as spatial averaging and cooperative gene activation, mutual repression thus allows for gene-expression boundaries that are both steep and precise. Moreover, mutual repression dramatically enhances their robustness against embryo-to-embryo variations in the morphogen levels. Finally, our simulations reveal that diffusion of the gap proteins plays a critical role not only in reducing the width of the gap gene expression boundaries via the mechanism of spatial averaging, but also in repairing patterning errors that could arise because of the bistability induced by mutual repression.