22962687	2012	SB1578 is a novel, orally bioavailable JAK2 inhibitor with specificity for JAK2 within the JAK family and also potent activity against FLT3 and c-Fms. These three tyrosine kinases play a pivotal role in activation of pathways that underlie the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis. SB1578 blocks the activation of these kinases and their downstream signaling in pertinent cells, leading to inhibition of pathological cellular responses. The biochemical and cellular activities of SB1578 translate into its high efficacy in two rodent models of arthritis. SB1578 not only prevents the onset of arthritis but is also potent in treating established disease in collagen-induced arthritis mice with beneficial effects on histopathological parameters of bone resorption and cartilage damage. SB1578 abrogates the inflammatory response and prevents the infiltration of macrophages and neutrophils into affected joints. It also leads to inhibition of Ag-presenting dendritic cells and inhibits the autoimmune component of the disease. In summary, SB1578 has a unique kinase spectrum, and its pharmacological profile provides a strong rationale for the ongoing clinical development in autoimmune diseases.
22962686	2012	There is considerable evidence supporting a role for mold exposure in the pathogenesis and expression of childhood asthma. Aspergillus versicolor and Cladosporium cladosporioides are common molds that have been implicated in asthma. In a model of mold-induced asthma, mice were repeatedly exposed to either A. versicolor or C. cladosporioides spores. The two molds induced distinct phenotypes, and this effect was observed in both BALB/c and C57BL/6 strains. C. cladosporioides induced robust airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), eosinophilia, and a predominately Th2 response, whereas A. versicolor induced a strong Th17 response and neutrophilic inflammation, but very mild AHR. Neutralization of IL-17A resulted in strong AHR and eosinophilic inflammation following A. versicolor exposure. In Dectin-1-deficient mice, A. versicolor exposure resulted in markedly attenuated IL-17A and robust AHR compared with wild-type mice. In contrast, C. cladosporioides induced AHR and eosinophilic inflammation independent of IL-17A and Dectin-1. A. versicolor, but not C. cladosporioides, spores had increased exposure of β-glucans on their surface and were able to bind Dectin-1. Thus, the host response to C. cladosporioides was IL-17A- and Dectin-1-independent, whereas Dectin-1- and IL-17A-dependent pathways were protective against the development of asthma after exposure to A. versicolor.
22962685	2012	The importance of type I IFN signaling in the innate immune response to viral and intracellular pathogens is well established, with an increasing literature implicating extracellular bacterial pathogens, including Staphylococcus aureus, in this signaling pathway. Airway epithelial cells and especially dendritic cells (DCs) contribute to the production of type I IFNs in the lung. We were interested in establishing how S. aureus activates the type I IFN cascade in DCs. In vitro studies confirmed the rapid uptake of S. aureus by DCs followed promptly by STAT1 phosphorylation and expression of IFN-β. Signaling occurred using heat-killed organisms and in the absence of PVL and α-toxin. Consistent with the participation of endosomal and not cytosolic receptors, signaling was predominantly mediated by MyD88, TLR9, and IRF1 and blocked by cytochalasin D, dynasore, and chloroquine. To determine the role of TLR9 signaling in the pathogenesis of S. aureus pneumonia, we infected WT and Tlr9(-/-) mice with MRSA USA300. Tlr9(-/-) mice had significantly improved clearance of S. aureus from the airways and lung tissue. Ifnar(-/-) mice also had improved clearance. This enhanced clearance in Tlr9(-/-) mice was not due to differences in the numbers of recruited neutrophils into the airways, but instead correlated with decreased induction of TNF. Thus, we identified TLR9 as the critical receptor mediating the induction of type I IFN signaling in DCs in response to S. aureus, illustrating an additional mechanism through which S. aureus exploits innate immune signaling to facilitate infection.
22962682	2012	A disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs (ADAMTS) constitute a family of endopeptidases related to matrix metalloproteinases. These proteinases have been largely implicated in tissue remodeling associated with pathological processes. Among them, ADAMTS12 was identified as an asthma-associated gene in a human genome screening program. However, its functional implication in asthma is not yet documented. The present study aims at investigating potential ADAMTS-12 functions in experimental models of allergic airways disease. Two different in vivo protocols of allergen-induced airways disease were applied to the recently generated Adamts12-deficient mice and corresponding wild-type mice. In this study, we provide evidence for a protective effect of ADAMTS-12 against bronchial inflammation and hyperresponsiveness. In the absence of Adamts12, challenge with different allergens (OVA and house dust mite) led to exacerbated eosinophilic inflammation in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and in lung tissue, along with airway dysfunction assessed by increased airway responsiveness following methacholine exposure. Furthermore, mast cell counts and ST2 receptor and IL-33 levels were higher in the lungs of allergen-challenged Adamts12-deficient mice. The present study provides, to our knowledge, the first experimental evidence for a contribution of ADAMTS-12 as a key mediator in airways disease, interfering with immunological processes leading to inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness.
22962636	2012	Mutually exclusive cell fate determination of CD4 helper or CD8 killer T cells occurs in the thymus. These T-cell subsets are not believed to redirect other lineages. Here we showed that retinoic acid and transforming growth factor-β1 promoted the differentiation of CD8αα T cells from CD4 T cells in a Runx3-dependent manner. These cells were inferred to belong to immunoregulatory populations because subpopulations of CD8αα+TCRαβ T cells are known to suppress activated T cells, and mice with Runx3(-/-) T cells showed defects during recovery from experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. Our results demonstrate that CD4 T cells play fundamental roles in controlling immune reactions through promotion and attenuation. We accordingly anticipate that clarifying the mechanisms underlying this process will provide insights leading to autoimmune and immunodeficiency disease therapies.
22962611	2012	Resveratrol is a bioactive polyphenol enriched in red wine that exhibits many beneficial health effects via multiple mechanisms. However, it is unclear whether resveratrol is beneficial for the prevention of food allergy. This study investigated whether resveratrol inhibited the development of food allergy by using a mouse model of the disease.
Mice fed standard diet or standard diet plus resveratrol were sensitized by intragastric administration of ovalbumin (OVA) and mucosal adjuvant cholera toxin (CT). Several manifestations of food allergy were then compared between the mice. The effects of resveratrol on T cells or dendritic cells were also examined by using splenocytes from OVA-specific T cell-receptor (TCR) transgenic DO11.10 mice or mouse bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) in vitro. We found that mice fed resveratrol showed reduced OVA-specific serum IgE production, anaphylactic reaction, and OVA-induced IL-13 and IFN-ã production from the mesenteric lymph nodes (MLNs) and spleens in comparison to the control mice, following oral sensitization with OVA plus CT. In addition, resveratrol inhibited OVA plus CT-induced IL-4, IL-13, and IFN-ã production in splenocytes from DO11.10 mice associated with inhibition of GATA-3 and T-bet expression. Furthermore, resveratrol suppressed the OVA plus CT-induced CD25 expression and IL-2 production in DO11.10 mice-splenocytes in association with decreases in CD80 and CD86 expression levels. Finally, resveratrol suppressed CT-induced cAMP elevation in association with decreases in CD80 and CD86 expression levels in BMDCs.
Ingestion of resveratrol prevented the development of a food allergy model in mice. Given the in vitro findings, resveratrol might do so by inhibiting DC maturation and subsequent early T cell activation and differentiation via downregulation of CT-induced cAMP activation in mice. These results suggest that resveratrol may have potential for prophylaxis against food allergy.
22962610	2012	Pharmacological agents, such as bezafibrate, that activate peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) and PPAR γ coactivator-1α (PGC-1α) pathways have been shown to improve mitochondrial function and energy metabolism. The mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutator mouse is a mouse model of aging that harbors a proofreading-deficient mtDNA polymerase γ. These mice develop many features of premature aging including hair loss, anemia, osteoporosis, sarcopenia and decreased lifespan. They also have increased mtDNA mutations and marked mitochondrial dysfunction. We found that mutator mice treated with bezafibrate for 8-months had delayed hair loss and improved skin and spleen aging-like phenotypes. Although we observed an increase in markers of fatty acid oxidation in these tissues, we did not detect a generalized increase in mitochondrial markers. On the other hand, there were no improvements in muscle function or lifespan of the mutator mouse, which we attributed to the rodent-specific hepatomegaly associated with fibrate treatment. These results showed that despite its secondary effects in rodent's liver, bezafibrate was able to improve some of the aging phenotypes in the mutator mouse. Because the associated hepatomegaly is not observed in primates, long-term bezafibrate treatment in humans could have beneficial effects on tissues undergoing chronic bioenergetic-related degeneration.
22962608	2012	The ubiquitin ligase Cbl-b is an established regulator of T cell immune response thresholds. We recently showed that adoptive cell transfer (ACT) of cblb(-/-) CD8(+) T cells enhances dendritic cell (DC) immunization-mediated anti-tumor effects in immune-competent recipients. However, translation of cblb targeting to clinically applicable concepts requires that inhibition of cblb activity be transient and reversible. Here we provide experimental evidence that inhibition of cblb using chemically synthesized siRNA has such potential. Silencing cblb expression by ex vivo siRNA transfection of polyclonal CD8(+) T cells prior to ACT increased T cell tumor infiltration, significantly delayed tumor outgrowth, and increased survival rates of tumor-bearing mice. As shown by ex vivo recall assays, cblb silencing resulted in significant augmentation of intratumoral T cell cytokine response. ACT of cblb-silenced polyclonal CD8(+) T cells combined with DC-based tumor vaccines predominantly mediated anti-tumor immune responses, whereas no signs of autoimmunity could be detected. Importantly, CBLB silencing in human CD8(+) T cells mirrored the effects observed for cblb-silenced and cblb-deficient murine T cells. Our data validate the concept of enhanced anti-tumor immunity by repetitive ACT of ex vivo cblb siRNA-silenced hyper-reactive CD8(+) T cells as add-on adjuvant therapy to augment the efficacy of existing cancer immunotherapy regimens in clinical practice.
22962600	2012	The molecular mechanisms that initiate the inflammatory response in heatstroke and their relation with tissue injury and lethality are not fully elucidated. We examined whether endogenous ligands released by damaged/stressed cells such as high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) signaling through Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) may play a pathogenic role in heatstroke. Mutant TLR4-defective (C3H/HeJ) and wild type (C3H/HeOuJ) mice were subjected to heat stress in an environmental chamber pre-warmed at 43.5°C until their core temperature reached 42.7°C, which was taken as the onset of heatstroke. The animals were then allowed to recover passively at ambient temperature. A sham-heated group served as a control. Mutant mice displayed more histological liver damage and higher mortality compared with wild type mice (73% vs. 27%, respectively, P<0.001). Compared to wild type mice, mutant mice exhibited earlier plasma release of markers of systemic inflammation such as HMGB1 (206±105 vs. 63±21 ng/ml; P = 0.0018 and 209±100 vs. 46±32 ng/ml; P<0.0001), IL-6 (144±40 vs. 46±20 pg/ml; P<0.001 and 184±21 vs. 84±54 pg/ml; P = 0.04), and IL-1β (27±4 vs. 1.7±2.3 pg/ml; P<0.0001 at 1 hour). Both strains of mice displayed early release of HMGB1 into the circulation upstream of IL-1β and IL-6 responses which remained elevated up to 24 h. Specific inhibition of HMGB1 activity with DNA-binding A Box (600 µg/mouse) protected the mutant mice against the lethal effect of heat stress (60% A Box vs. 18% GST protein, P = 0.04). These findings suggest a protective role for the TLR4 in the host response to severe heat stress. They also suggest that HMGB1 is an early mediator of inflammation, tissue injury and lethality in heatstroke in the presence of defective TLR4 signaling.
22962592	2012	Hemidesmosomes are composed of intricate networks of proteins, that are an essential attachment apparatus for the integrity of epithelial tissue. Disruption leads to blistering diseases such as epidermolysis bullosa. Members of the Sox gene family show dynamic and diverse expression patterns during development and mutation analyses in humans and mice provide evidence that they play a remarkable variety of roles in development and human disease. Previous studies have established that the mouse mutant ragged-opossum (Ra(op)) expresses a dominant-negative form of the SOX18 transcription factor that interferes with the function of wild type SOX18 and of the related SOXF-subgroup proteins SOX7 and -17. Here we show that skin and oral mucosa in homozygous Ra(op) mice display extensive detachment of epithelium from the underlying mesenchymal tissue, caused by tearing of epithelial cells just above the plasma membrane due to hemidesmosome disruption. In addition, several hemidesmosome proteins expression were found to be dysregulated in the Ra(op) mice. Our data suggest that SOXF transcription factors play a role in regulating formation of cytoplasmic plaque protein assembly, and that disrupted SOXF function results in epidermolysis bullosa-like skin phenotypes.